---
layout: single
permalink: /workshop/emip-2017/
header:
title: "EMIP 2017 Workshop - Spring Academy"
sidebar:
  nav: "emip-2017"
---

# The fourth International Workshop on Eye Movements in Programming

**Freie Universität Berlin, Germany, March 16th – March 17th, 2017**
(get-together on March 15th in the evening)

[Program](/workshop/emip-2017-program)

[Travel information](/workshop/emip-2017-travel-information)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sL4ntE8eduM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The Eye Movements In Programming community organizes the 2017 spring meeting in Berlin. The previous workshops were held in Joensuu, Finland (2013 & 2015), and in Berlin, Germany (2014). The 2017 EMIP Spring Academy in Berlin will feature speakers from the domain of gaze in programming, including social aspects, vision and educational perspectives. The program also includes focused workshops on topics related to the analysis of gaze data in programming and introduces new systems, tools, and techniques.

The event is suitable for both academic and industrial participants wishing to update and broaden their views on the role of attention in programming and education.

Participants are invited to submit a short abstract, in case they wish to make a presentation and/or discuss ideas during the workshop.

# **Invited speakers / contributors:**
- **Tanya Beelders,** University of the Free State
- **Sven Buchholz,** University of Applied Sciences Brandenburg
- **Teresa Busjahn,** Freie Universität Berlin
- **Pavel Orlov,** Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University
- **James Paterson,** Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
- **Markus Plank,** SensoMotoric Instruments (SMI)
- **Carsten Schulte & Lea Budde,** University of Paderborn
- **Bonita Sharif,** Youngstown State University

# **Program:**
The Spring Academy will feature a mixture of invited talks, hands-on demos with SMI BeGaze and contributions by participants. We are aiming for a highly interactive workshop with overview presentations, the opportunity for networking activities and presentations in smaller groups.

Details on the program will be based on participants’ submissions.

**Date:**
March 15 evening: social gathering
March 16-17: workshop

**Venue:** Freie Universität, Berlin, Germany

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d4862.7329619167285!2d13.293284!3d52.45439!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x8bcc7df1129995aa!2sFreie%20Universit%C3%A4t%20Berlin!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sde!4v1629436242485!5m2!1sen!2sde" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy"></iframe>


# **Submission:**
Send your 1-2 page extended abstract in ACM two column format to Sascha Tamm <[tamm@zedat.fu-berlin.de](mailto:tamm@zedat.fu-berlin.de)> by March 1, 2017. Submissions will be lightly reviewed for inclusion. All accepted submissions will be published in a collected proceedings online and a technical report with an ISBN.

# **Registration:**
Registration to be announced (registration fee of 40 EUR will be collected during the workshop)

# **Contact:**
Carsten Schulte <[carsten.schulte@uni-paderborn.de](mailto:carsten.schulte@uni-paderborn.de)>
Lea Budde <[lea.budde@uni-paderborn.de](mailto:lea.budde@uni-paderborn.de)>
Roman Bednarik <[roman.bednarik@uef.fi](mailto:roman.bednarik@uef.fi)>
Hana Vrzakova <[hanav@uef.fi](mailto:hanav@uef.fi)>
Sascha Tamm <[tamm@zedat.fu-berlin.de](mailto:tamm@zedat.fu-berlin.de)>
