---
layout: single
permalink: /workshop/emip-2024/
header:
title: "EMIP 2024 Workshop"
sidebar:
  nav: "emip-2024"
---

# Workshop Overview
We are inviting contributions to the Twelfth International Workshop on Eye Movements in Programming 2024, which will be held **in June 04-07, 2024** (exact date/time TBA). It is co-located with the [2024 ACM Symposium of Eye Tracking Research & Applications (ETRA)](http://etra.acm.org/2024/) in Glasgow, UK.

The study of eye gaze data has great potential for research in computer programming, computing education, and software engineering practice. The Twelfth International Workshop on Eye Movements in Programming (EMIP 2024) will again focus on advancing the methodological, theoretical, and applied aspects of eye movements in programming. The goal of the workshop is to further develop the methodology of using eye gaze tracking for programming, both theoretically and in applications. What can gaze behavior tell us about cognitive processes during programming? This question enables us to understand the role of human factors involved in programming.

# Topics of Interest
We invite contributions analyzing gaze behavior of activities related to programming, such as code reading and debugging, social aspects, vision, and educational perspectives. These may include, but are not limited to, the role of emotions in programming, vision-based models, readability, and new theories of program comprehension. Contributions are expected to present implications to software engineering practice or programming education. Specific topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

• Identification and analysis of appropriate data abstractions for eye tracking analysis

• Models of cognition about software development

• Effects of text-based, graphical, or diagram-based program representations

• Effects of syntax or language features, as well as programming paradigms

• Identification and analysis of behaviors and strategies oflearners’ reading, writing, and debugging code, acquiring new domains and skills, longitudinal growth

• Challenges for learners or software engineers (e.g., obstacles to learning or accomplishing tasks)

• Applications for eye tracking, e.g., software engineering tasks, such as program comprehension, debugging, requirements traceability, change tracking

• Development and evaluation of tools and processes for working with eye tracking

• Development and evaluation of visualizations for static and dynamic program execution

• Applications offering programming assistance or accessibility using eye tracking devices, data, and analyses

• Combinations of eye tracking with other sensing modalities,such as fMRI, EEG, GSR, or fNIRS

• Multi-person eye tracking, e.g., during pair programming orcollaborative problem solving

• Eye gaze datasets and source code amenable to eye gazestudies

• Analyses of pre-existing eye gaze datasets, e.g. the EMIP dataset

• Development of platforms, tools, and methods which enable reproducible experiments


# Venue and Dates

The Workshop will be held in a hybrid fashion in Glasgow, UK at the ACM Symposium of Eye Tracking Research & Applications (ETRA).

Important dates:

• Deadline for papers: March 01, 2024 (AoE)

• Notification to authors: March 27, 2024

• Camera-ready Deadline: April 05, 2024 (AoE)

• Workshop: June 07, 2024 (exact time TBA)

You can register for the workshop here: TBA.


# Submissions and Presentations
The workshop will be devoted to presenting new research results. We invite several types of contributions:

• new research results

• new ideas

• demos

Submitted papers can contain up to 8 pages (single column, plus references) and will be published in the ETRA Workshop Proceedings (in the ACM Digital Library).

Additionally, EMIP will feature work-in-progress papers with up to 4 pages (single column, plus references). These will be reviewed lightly, but not published in the proceedings. 

Submissions must be written in English and should be submitted through Precision Conference System (PCS). To submit a paper, please visit: [https://new.precisionconference.com/user/login?society=etra](https://new.precisionconference.com/user/login?society=etra), select “Society: ETRA, Conference: ETRA2024, Track: ETRA 2024 – EMIP”. Your submission should be prepared following the [ETRA paper template instructions](http://etra.acm.org/2024/submissionprocess.html). Please use the ACM article template for all submissions with the `manuscript,review,anonymous` style.

Each submission will be reviewed by three members of the program committee. If a submission is accepted, at least one author of the paper is required to attend the workshop and (virtually) present the paper.

Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/emipws) or [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/emipws/) for news and updates.

## Accepted Papers

TBA.

# Workshop Organizers
- Norman Peitek — Saarland University, Saarland Informatics Campus, Germany
- James Paterson — Glasgow Caledonian University, United Kingdom

# Program Committee
TBA.
