---
layout: single
permalink: /workshop/emip-2015/
header:
title: "EMIP 2015 Workshop - Models to Data"
sidebar:
  nav: "emip-2015"
---
**Workshop program:**

**Sunday November 22**

13:00 Get together-lunch at Surakan Baari ([www.surakanbaari.fi](www.surakanbaari.fi), Rantakatu 11-13, 80100 Joensuu), possibly followed by a tour of the city

**Monday November 23, Room 2D309, Joensuu Science Park**

9:30 Registration and welcome

10:00 Invited talk – Dario Salvucci: [Eye Movements & Cognitive Models (PDF)](/assets/Salvucci_EMiP15_Models.pdf)

This talk will discuss how computational models can be used to better understand both eye movements and cognitive processes. In particular, the talk will give a short overview of the ACT-R cognitive architecture and its visual system, and discuss how these models can help to explain behavior in task domains such as driving and multitasking.

11:00 Coffee Break

11:20 Dario Salvucci: A short hands-on exercise on ACT-R architectures.

11:45 World Café

- Dimosthenis Kontogiorgos, Konstantinos Manikas: Measuring programming expertise within physiological means
- David C. Moffat, James H. Paterson: Eye-tracking to trace anxieties of programmers
- Denae Ford, Titus Barik, Chris Parnin: Studying Sustained Attention and Cognitive States in Remote Technical Interviews
- Emlyn Hegarty-Kelly, Susan Bergin, Aidan Mooney: Using focused attention to improve programming comprehension for novice programmers
- Jozef Tvarozek, Martin Konopka, Pavol Navrat, Maria Bielikova: Studying Various Source Code Comprehension Strategies in Programming Education
- Vera Solomonova, Pavel A. Orlov: What are programmers looking for?

12:30 Lunch

14:00 Invited talk – Tuomo Häikiö: [Eye movements and reading development (PDF)](/assets/Häikiö_EMIP2015_Reading.pdf)

Eye movement registration has proved a valuable tool to examine reading behavior and has been used extensively to study skilled reading. However, much less is known about how reading development progresses from early to skilled reading. This is surprising, given how important reading skill is for education, for example. As this lack of research can partly be attributed to the ease of use of equipment with young children, it should not come as a surprise that with the recent development of state-of-the-art eye movement registration equipment, in last few years there has been a surge of new research into this particular field of interest. In my talk, I will go over some basic findings about skilled reading behavior and reading development as well as describe several techniques that can be used to study different aspects of reading.

14:45 Coffee Break

15:00 Topic workshops, parallel sessions I + II

16:30 Topic workshop wrap-up

18:00 Social program


**Tuesday November 24**

9:30 Meike Mischo (SMI): SMI Scientific Eye Tracking for a Broad of Research Settings

10:00 Paper presentations (10 + 5 minutes)

- Andrew Begel: Eye Movements During Code Review
- James H. Paterson, Katrin Hartmann: Readability Metrics for Program Code: How is Reading Ease Reflected in Gaze?
- Pavel A. Orlov: Experts vs Novices in programming: “Who knows where to look?”
- Keith Nolan, Aidan Mooney, Susan Bergin: Examining the role of cognitive load when learning to program

11:00 Paper centric coffee

11:30 Workshop outcome

12:30 Lunch

13:30 Topic workshops, parallel sessions III + IV

15:30 Coffee break

16:00 Wrap-up

17:30 End of Workshop
 

Topic workshops:

- Distributed Data Analysis
- Models and Operationalization of Comprehension
- Coding for Content Analysis of narrative descriptions of gaze traces:
Participants in a previous EMiPE workshop were asked to comment in their position papers on gaze data obtained from two novices reading a set of code examples. The participants based their comments mainly on videos and timelines derived from the gaze data. In most cases, their contributions included a narrative describing the novices’ gaze and interpreting this in terms of motivation and cognitive process. Workshop participants were experts in eye-tracking research, education or both. It is interesting to consider whether an ‘expert’ can make meaningful inferences from gaze data, and whether those experts agree on the cognitive processes.
To investigate this we propose to apply Content Analysis techniques to study the narratives in the position papers. Content analysis is a research tool used to determine the presence of certain words or concepts within texts or sets of texts, and makes use of codebooks. A codebook has been designed and piloted, and participants in this workshop are invited to help with the process of coding the narratives. This may be particularly interesting to those who took part last year and authored these narratives and to those who have been involved subsequently in this research. New participants are welcome, however, and will be able to learn about and make a valuable contribution to this work.
Instructions for participation will be given at the workshop. We will be using the tool RQDA and it will be useful if participants have this installed on their laptops – installation instructions can be found at [http://rqda.r-forge.r-project.org/](http://rqda.r-forge.r-project.org/).
See also:

[Information on travel and accommodation](/workshop/emip-2015-travel-information/)

[Call for papers](/workshop/emip-2015-call-for-papers/)